>>> THIS IS A LIVE LOOK AT THE
RAFAH BORDER CROSSING WHERE
HUNDREDS OF AMERICANS COULD BE
LEAVING GAZA TODAY.
ACCORDING TO THIS NEW DEAL
HAMAS, THEY HAVE BEEN TRAPPED
INSIDE THE WAR ZONE FOR WEEKS AS
ISRAEL CONTINUES ITS UNRELENTING
GROUND ASSAULT.
YOU'RE LOOKING AT THE
DEVASTATION FROM A SECONDARY
STRIKE IN TWO DAYS ON GAZA'S
LARGEST REFUGEE CAMP.
THE IDF SAYS IT WAS TARGETING
HAMAS' COMMAND CENTER, BUT THE
UNITED NATIONS HUMAN RIGHTS
OFFICE IS WARNING THE HIGH
NUMBER OF CIVILIAN CASUALTIES
FROM THE STRIKES ON THE DENSELY
POPULATED CAMP COULD BE A WAR
CRIME.
>> HAMAS' DEFENIVE LINES ARE
COLLAPSING AND RETREATING.
THIS IS THE LATE HADDEST VIDEO
FROM THE IDF.
PRESIDENT BIDEN IS NOW SAYING HE
SUPPORTS A HUMANITARIAN PAUSE IN
THE WAR TO SAVE HOSTAGES STILL
IN GAZ SA.
A PROTESTERS CALLED FOR A
CEASE-FIRE.
HE RESPONDED, I THINK WE NEED A
PAUSE.
A PAUSE MEANS GIVE TIME TO GET
THE PRISONERS OUT.
WE HAVE LIVE COVERAGE ALL
MORNING.
PRISCILLA ALVAREZ IS LIVE FOR
US.
BUT I WANT TO START WITH
RAPHAEL.
MORE AMERICANS WILL BE GETTING
OUT TODAY.
WHAT'S THE LATEST IN TERMS OF
PEOPLE GETTING ACROSS THAT
BORDER?
>> Reporter: GOOD MORNING, THE
EXPECTATION IS THAT MORE
AMERICANS AND MORE FOREIGNERS IN
GENERAL WILL BE ABLE TO PASS
THROUGH A STATE DEPARTMENT
SPOKESMAN CONFIRMED WEDNESDAY
THAT AN INITIAL GROUP OF FOREIGN
NATIONALS, INCLUDING U.S.
CITIZENS HAD DEPARTED GAZA AND
MADE IT INTO EGYPT, ALSO HE
DECLINED TO GIVE SPECIFICS ON IF
U.S. CITIZENS WERE ABLE TO LEAVE
GAZA.
HE DID SAY THAT MORE AMERICANS
WOULD BE ABLE TO LEAVE TODAY AND
IN THE NEXT DAYS AND THAT THE
STATE DEPARTMENT HAD
COMMUNICATED DIRECTLY WITH
AMERICAN CITIZENS IN GAZA SO
THEY WOULD BE READY TO GO.
THERE WAS ALSO CONFIRMATION FROM
PRESIDENT BIDEN HIMSELF.
HE WROTE WEDNESDAY ON X THAT THE
U.S. HAD SECURED SAFE PASSAGE
FOR WOUNDED PALESTINIANS AND FOR
FOREIGN NATIONALS TO EXIT GAZA.
WE'RE EXPECTING SOME AMERICAN
CITIZENS TO EXIT RIGHT AWAY WITH
MORE DEPARTING OVER THE NEXT
COING DAYS.
HOW MANY AMERICANS WERE STUCK IN
GAZA?
AT A SENATE APPROPRIATIONS
COMMITTEE HEARING, SECRETARY OF
STATE ANTONY BLINKEN SAID THERE
WERE APPROXIMATELY 400 PLUS.
THEIR FAMILIES, ABOUT A THOUSAND
PEOPLE THE IN TOTAL.
HE ALSO SAID THERE ARE ABOUT
5,000 OTHER THIRD COUNTRY
NATIONALS IN GAZA WHO WANT TO
GET OUT AS WELL.
>> THERE'S BEEN A SECOND STRIKE
SINCE YESTERDAY MORNING, SINCE
WE WERE ON WITH YOU LAST, ON
THAT REFUGEE CAMP BY ISRAEL.
HOW ARE THEY EXPLAINING IT AND
DEFENDING IT GIVEN THEY SAID THE
FIRST STRIKE TOOK OUT THE HAMAS
TARGET THEY WERE GOING AFTER?
>> Reporter: YEAH, THAT'S RIGHT.
ISRAEL DEFENSE FORCES COMMANDER
LAST NIGHT SAID THAT THE PROBLEM
HERE IS WHAT THEY HAVE BEEN
FACEING ALL ALONG, HAMAS IS
EMBEDDED IN CIVILIAN
COMMUNITIES, BUILDING THEIR
COMMAND CENTERS, THEIR
INFRASTRUCTURE BEHIND SCHOOLS,
HOSPITALS, AND OTHER CIVIC
CENTERS.
IT'S VERY DIFFICULT TO BE ABLE
TO TARGET THE COMMANDERS AND THE
OPERATIVES WITHOUT ANY
CASUALTIES.
HE SAID THEY ARE TRYING THEIR
BEST NOT TO HARM ANY CIVILIANS,
SO THEY DO NOT INTEND TO INJURY
ANY CIVILIANS, BUT IT'S A
REALITY THAT THEY ARE FACING IN
THE GROUND.
THEY ALSO REITERATED WHAT THEY
SAID A COUPLE WEEKS AGO THAT
THEY HAD ASKED THE CIVILIAN
POPULATION TO LEAVE THOSE COBAT
ZONESES IN THE NORTH AND GO
SOUTH, BUT WHAT WE'RE HEARING
FROM RELIEF WORKERS AND DOCTORS
IN THE NORTH IS THAT MANY OF
THESE PEOPLE CANNOT LEAVE, MANY
OF THEM ARE SICK AND BEING
TREATED IN HOSPITALS.
WE ARE TALKING ABOUT FAMILIES
WITH YOUNG CHILDREN.
IT'S JUST IMPOSSIBLE FOR THEM TO
GET THROUGH.
AND THEN AGAIN, THERE'S REALLY
NO SAFE PLACE IN GAZA AT THIS
POINT.
>> THANK YOU FOR THE REPORTING.
>> LET'S GO TO PRISCILLA
ALVAREZ.
A PROTESTER IDENTIFIED HERSELF
AND INTERRUPTED PRESIDENT BIDEN
AND CALLED FOR A CEASE-FIRE.
>> MR. PRESIDENT?
I NEED YOU TO CALL FOR A
CEASE-FIRE.
>> WHAT'S INTERESTING IS THE
PRESIDENT EVEN THOUGH SHE WAS
BEING TOLD TO LEAVE, HE DID
STAND AND ANSWER A COUPLE
QUESTIONS.
THE PRESIDENT SAID HE YOU WANTED
THE EMOTION AND CALLED FOR A
PAUSE.
HAD HE WAS CAREFUL NOT TO SAY
CEASE-FIRE.
WHEN YOU LOOK AT WHAT HE SAID,
WHAT DOES HE MEAN?
>> Reporter: THIS MOMENT REALLY
CAPTURED THE DELL INDICATE
NATURE OF THE CONFLICT AND THE
HEIGHTENED EMOTIONS OF THE WHITE
HOUSE IS TRYING TO NAVIG
THE PRESIDENT DID ACKNOWLEDGE
THE REMARKS SAYING, QUOTE, I
THINK WE NEED A PAUSE, A PAUSE
MEANS GIVE TIME TO GET THE
PRISONERS OUT.
THAT REFERRING TO THE HOSTAGES
HELD BY HAMAS.
SO THE PRESIDENT REALLY
EXTENDING WHAT U.S. OFFICIALS
HAVE ALREADY SAID, WHICH IS THAT
THEY WOULD LIKE TO SEE ISRAEL
ENGAGE IN A HUMANITARIAN PAUSE
TO GET AID INTO GAZA AND TO GET
THE HOSTAGES OUT OF GAZA.
BUT THEY HAVE ALWAYS BEEN VERY,
VERY CAREFUL ABOUT USING THE
TERM CEASE-FIRE, SAYING
CEASE-FIRE, AND EVEN IMPLYING AT
ALL THAT THEY ARE TELLING ISRAEL
WHAT TO DO AND HOW TO CONDUCT
ITS MILITARY OPERATIONS.
SO WHAT PRESIDENT BIDEN SAID
LAST NIGHT WAS REALLY AN
EXTENSION OF WHAT WE HAVE BEEN
HEARING FROM U.S. OFFICIALS, BUT
AGAIN, IT UNDERSCORES HOW
POLITICALLY DIFFICULT THIS IS
FOR THE PRESIDENT.
THAT HAPPENING AT A CAMPAIGN
FUNDRAISER IN MINNEAPOLIS.
AND ALSO THE PRESIDENT REMINDING
THE CROWD THAT THIS IS A
COMPLICATED CONFLICT THAT HAMAS
IS A TERRORIST ORGANIZATION, AND
ALSO NOTING THAT HE IS THE GUY
THAT GOT AID GOO GAZA.
SO ONE THAT THIS IS FAST MOVING,
BUT HE IS THE PERSON TO TALK TO
THESE LOADERS AND TRY TO ARRANGE
FOR AID TO GET INTO GAZA AND
WORK TO GET THOSE HOSTAGES OUT
OF GAZA.
BUT ALL OF THIS JUST